
Tradition or Two Problems for the Study of Political Economy in a Colony


<footnote>I use the word us to speak to those who see a colonial past in the present.</footnote>

Reconceiving hermeneutical experience as an interplay between tradition and interpretation, Hans-Georg Gadamer writes, "The [hermeneutic] circle...is not formal in nature, it is neither subjective nor objective, but describes understanding as the interplay of the movement of tradition and the movement of the interpreter. The anticipation of meaning that governs our understanding of a text is not an act of subjectivity, but proceeds from the commonality that binds us to tradition. But this is condtained in our relation to tradition, in the constant process of education. Tradition is not simply a precondition into which we come, but we produce it ourselves, inasmuch as we understand, participate in the evolution of tradition and hence further determine it ourselves." (Truth and Method, 261). Gadamer effortlessly connects an understanding of a text with an immersion in a tradition which is related to the continuous process of educating oneself. This connection between tradition and education is hardly straightforward, neither is it easy to accept when one remembers the project of overhauling the university system in Colonial India, a project initiated by the British administration for different political ends. As far as the academy is concerned, our inability to invoke traditions of normative thought and claim making without speaking of an absence, an epistemic break, or rupture between the pre-modern and the modern is a political end of the British instated education that we continue to be burdened by. To speak of colonial education alone does not go far enough, for even the conceptual language we use to describe our experience and in the process produce it, is often governed by an ambivalence, a movement between the modern and the pre-modern. Such a movement can be generative in explaining a shift in the way we understand and respond to art, literature, and alternate practices of science, to take a few discursive examples. We become aware of this ambivalence when we recognize that colonial power shifted the way we cognize scientific knowledge, or what constitutes exemplary literature. Such a cognitive shift was induced by a falsificatory logic of colonial power (Kaviraj, "Sudden Death" 120). The power to falsify other ways of organizing social life was an imperative that the colonial administration undertook, but in the process also introduced modern techniques and discourses of organizing social life. Political economy is a discipline which stood at the forefront of this process. As a backward gaze from the contemporary to the moment where political economy arises in Colonial India, how do we conceive of a tradition when we engage with political economy as a discursive field? To counter and respond to Gadamer's concern through a colonial filter: can tradition be a ontological basis for an intellectual understanding of political economy? Can we move from the methodological to the ontological through tradition? Can tradition structure understanding when political economy as discourse and a set of institutions is a source of newness in Colonial India?

Gadamer invokes tradition to give hermeneutical experience---or the act of reading---a historicity; the work of interpretation must be historically grounded, and to convince us of this, Gadamer relies on a tradition of authors who thought deeply about aesthetics, hermeneutics and historical experience. Political economy with its concern with the circulation of value, and the ability of the laboring activity to transform social relationships, is hardly Gadamer's domain. Yet hermeneutics and political economy intersect when we see these intellectual activities as form of reading that seeks to give structure (or undo it). A form of reading that opens itself to a historicity (and to move beyond it). A form of reading which establishes a diachronic relationship between the contemporary, and the past, but  differing in the object under analysis that they seek to transform. While hermenuetics in the Gadamerian sense can be reflexive, giving us a structure for understanding and its historicity, political economy opens us to the social as an object of study, and its historical complexities with the question of power. While Gadamer stresses the power of interpretation and rereading, power in political economy has to begin with another reading of the colonial moment, one which takes into account political economy as a discourse and instrument of colonial control. Can such a reading from the present or the ground that we stand on as we turn to the colonial moment, give a more positive way of engaging with political economy, one which is away from the skepticism that encompasses us when we remember its colonial roots? How do we enunciate a tradition of social thought from the colony when political economy has its roots in British and German thought?





##A reading which cannot begin with a pat disregard for the conceptual vocabulary that liberalism provides... What is the object of study for political economy? What is the object of study for the economy? How do they differ? How do they concieve of history? Historical movement suggest that the economy is being reconstituted. The erasure of the normative.

##Can we connect the question of interpretation (gadamer) with knowledge (mitchell) and "political" economy: Mitchell would connect economy with knowledge; but what is the political need to assert subejctivity, and normativity, when is has no bargaining power as far as development, technological and infrastructural projects have the power to rearrange the way we live? Subjectivity, race, and cultural hegemony seem to be ineffective categories. But unless one tries to resist, dissent there will not be another way; normativity, political economy, economy (separates the political from the economic) thus creating a fragmented intellectual schema;

